documentation about how to train a yolo (#262)
bit-bots/bitbots_vision: bitbots_vision/docs/manual/tutorials/train_yolo.rst

=================
How to train YOLO
=================

We currently use YOLO as our neural network for ball and goalpost detection.
We are considering to use more classes e.g. robots, but you should be mostly fine to just follow this tutorial even after those changes.

> Our images and annotations are from the ImageTagger.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our images and annotations are from the `ImageTagger <https://imagetagger.bit-bots.de>`_.
```

After following this tutorial you should have a trained YOLO network that is able to detect balls and goalposts at a decent framerate in the RoboCup Soccer context.

Select image sets
-----------------

Since image sets and annotations are constantly added, it is hard to give an up to date list of which image sets make sense to use for your training.
An example of image sets that you could use for training of balls and goalposts is the following list:

> ``160  184  186  189  261  607  609  611  613  615  160  184  186  189  607  609  611  613  615``

Reviewer: ```suggestion
``160  184  186  189  607  609  611  613  615  160  184  186  189  607  609  611  613  615``
```

To find these image sets you can replace [id] in the following link with the id you want to open:

``https://imagetagger.bit-bots.de/images/imageset/[id]/``

If you want to select your own image sets it is probably advisable to look for image sets which have all your classes annotated.
Otherwise if your neural network detects a ball accurately but the ball is not labeled, the training would try to get the neural network to not detect the ball if it sees the same image again.

Download Images
---------------

You should download the images to the workstation you intend to train your YOLO on instead of your local computer.
If you are a BitBot this is probably the CL04 or CL05.

> After you now know which image sets you want to use it is time to download the images of these sets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After you now know which image sets you want to use, it is time to download the images of these sets.
```

You can just download them using the provided `script
<https://imagetagger.bit-bots.de/images/imageset/imagetagger_dl_script.py>`_.
If you execute it with
``./imagetagger_dl_script.py id1 id2 id3``
you can download all of your image sets with one command.

> You have to replace id1 with your corresponding id and can use as many or as few image sets as you want for this command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You have to replace the ``ids`` with your corresponding id and can use as many or as few image sets as you want for this command.
```

Download Annotations
--------------------

On each image set page on the right you can select an export format to which you want to export your data.
For our approach we use ``Bit-Bots/goalpostBallToYaml``.
Now you have to go to each image set you selected and select the format and press ``export``.
After a short loading time your new export will show up on the right.
You should download this and preferably name it <id>.yaml

> These yamls then have to be transferred to the work station and put into the folder with the images for the image set with the same id.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
These yamls then have to be transferred to the work station and put into the folder as the image set with the same id.
```

> You can then use the ``createYoloLabels.py`` script provided in the ``AutoImageLabeler`` repository.

Reviewer 2: link the repo and path to script

Train YOLO
----------

The ``createYoloLabels.py`` script creates a ``train.txt`` which you will have to use later.
Now we have prepared everything and can now start training the YOLO.
For these steps you can just follow the guide provided in the `official repository
<https://github.com/AlexeyAB/darknet#how-to-train-tiny-yolo-to-detect-your-custom-objects>`_.
In the end you will find a trained yolo in the backup folder of your darknet directory.

> Congrats, you have successfully trained a YOLO for the RoboCup Soccer context.

Reviewer: Add reference to openvino tutorial

For these steps you can just follow the guide provided in the `official repository
<https://github.com/AlexeyAB/darknet#how-to-train-tiny-yolo-to-detect-your-custom-objects>`_.
In the end you will find a trained yolo in the backup folder of your darknet directory.

> If you want to use the OpenVINO toolkit to execute the YOLO like we do, you should have a look at

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to use the OpenVINO toolkit to execute the YOLO on the Intel Neural Compute Stick2 like we do, you should have a look at
```
